examples/build_dl_models.md, before:

## Build using python dictionary

We can construct a normal layered model using keras layers by placing the layers in a dictionary. The keys in the
dictionary must be a keras layer and optionally can have an identifier separated by an underscore `_` in order to 
differentiate it from other similar layers in the model. The input/initializating arguments in the layer must be
enclosed in a dictionary within the layer. To find out what input/initializing arguments can be used, check
documentation of corresponding layer in [`Tensorflow` docs](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/keras/layers). 

### multi-layer perceptron

```python
from dl4seq import Model

import pandas as pd

layers = {"Dense_0": {'units': 64, 'activation': 'relu'},
          "Dropout_0": 0.3,  # 0.3 here refers to 'rate' keyword argument in Dropout layer in Tensorflow API
          "Dense_1": {'units': 32, 'activation': 'relu'},
          "Dropout_1": 0.3,
          "Dense_2": {'units': 16, 'activation': 'relu'},
          "Dense_3": 1     # 1 refers to 'units' keyword argument in Dense layer in Tensorflow
          }

df = pd.read_csv('data/all_data_30min.csv')

model = Model(
            batch_size=16,
            lookback=1,
            lr=0.001,
            model={'layers':layers},
            epochs=2,
              data=df
              )
```

<img src="imgs/mlp.png" width="500" height="600" />

### LSTM based model
If you do not define the last dense/fully connected layer, it will be inferred from the number of outputs the 
model is set to produce. In following case a [`Dense`](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/keras/layers/Dense) layer with one `units` is added automatically at the end of 
second `LSTM` layer.
```python
from dl4seq import Model
import pandas as pd

layers = {"LSTM_0": {'units': 64, 'return_sequences': True},
          "LSTM_1": 32
          }

df = pd.read_csv("data/all_data_30min.csv")

model = Model(batch_size=16,
                lookback=1,
                lr=0.001,
                model={'layers':layers},
                epochs=2,
              data=df
              )
```
<img src="imgs/lstm.png" width="500" height="600" />

### 1d CNN based model
If a layer does not receive any input arguments for its initialization, still an empty dictioanry must be provided.  
Activation functions can also be used as a separate layer.

```python
layers = {"Conv1D_9": {'filters': 64, 'kernel_size': 2},
          "dropout": 0.3,
          "Conv1D_1": {'filters': 32, 'kernel_size': 2},
          "maxpool1d": 2,
          'flatten': {}, # This layer does not receive any input arguments
          'leakyrelu': {},  # activation function can also be used as a separate layer
          "Dense": 1
          }
```

<img src="imgs/cnn.png" width="500" height="600" />

### LSTM -> CNN based model

```python
layers = {"LSTM": {'units': 64, 'return_sequences': True},
          "Conv1D_0": {'filters': 64, 'kernel_size': 2},
          "dropout": 0.3,
          "Conv1D_1": {'filters': 32, 'kernel_size': 2},
          "maxpool1d": 2,
          'flatten': {},
          'leakyrelu': {},
          "Dense": 1
          }
```
<img src="imgs/lstm_cnn.png" width="500" height="600" />

### ConvLSTM based model
dl4seq will infer input shape for general cases however it is better to explicitly define the [input layer](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/keras/Input)
when the input is > 3d or the number of inputs are more than one.
```python
layers = {'Input': {'shape': (3, 1, 4, 8)},
          'convlstm2d': {'filters': 64, 'kernel_size': (1, 3), 'activation': 'relu'},
          'flatten': {},
          'repeatvector': 1,
          'lstm':   {'units': 128,   'activation': 'relu', 'dropout': 0.3, 'recurrent_dropout': 0.4 },
          'Dense': 1
          }
```
<img src="imgs/convlstm.png" width="500" height="600" />

### CNN -> LSTM
If a layer is to be enclosed in `TimeDistributed` layer, just add the layer followed by `TimeDistributed` as shown below.
In following, 3 `Conv1D` layers are enclosed in `TimeDistributed` layer. Similary `Flatten` and `MaxPool1D` are also 
wrapped in `TimeDistributed` layer.
```python
sub_sequences = 3
lookback = 15
time_steps = lookback // sub_sequences
layers = {
    "Input": {'config': {'shape': (None, time_steps, 10)}},
    "TimeDistributed_0": {},
    'conv1d_0': {'filters': 64, 'kernel_size': 2},
    'LeakyRelu_0': {},
    "TimeDistributed_1":{},
    'conv1d_1': {'filters': 32, 'kernel_size': 2},
    'elu_1': {},
    "TimeDistributed_2": {},
    'conv1d_2': {'filters': 16, 'kernel_size': 2},
    'tanh_2': {},
    "TimeDistributed_3": {},
    "maxpool1d": {'pool_size': 2},
    "TimeDistributed_4": {},
    'flatten': {},
    'lstm_0':   {'units': 64, 'activation': 'relu', 'dropout': 0.4, 'recurrent_dropout': 0.5, 'return_sequences': True,
               'name': 'lstm_0'},
    'Relu_1': {},
    'lstm_1':   {'units': 32, 'activation': 'relu', 'dropout': 0.4, 'recurrent_dropout': 0.5, 'name': 'lstm_1'},
    'sigmoid_2': {},
    'Dense': 1
}
```
<img src="imgs/cnn_lstm.png" width="800" height="900" />

### LSTM based auto-encoder
```python
layers = {
    'lstm_0': {'units': 100,  'dropout': 0.3, 'recurrent_dropout': 0.4},
    "leakyrelu_0": {},
    'RepeatVector': 11,
    'lstm_1': {'units': 100,  'dropout': 0.3, 'recurrent_dropout': 0.4},
    "relu_1": {},
    'Dense': 1
}
```
<img src="imgs/lstm_autoenc.png" width="500" height="700" />

### TCN layer
You can use third party layers such as [`tcn`](https://github.com/philipperemy/keras-tcn) which is currently not supported by Tensorflow. Provided you have 
installed `tcn`, the layer along with its arguments can be used as following

```python
layers = {"tcn": {'nb_filters': 64,
                  'kernel_size': 2,
                  'nb_stacks': 1,
                  'dilations': [1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32],
                  'padding': 'causal',
                  'use_skip_connections': True,
                  'return_sequences': False,
                  'dropout_rate': 0.0},
          'Dense': 1
          }
```

<img src="imgs/tcn.png" width="500" height="700" />

### Multiple Inputs
In order to build more complex models, where a layer takes more than one inputs, you can specify the `inputs` key
for the layer and specify which inputs the layer uses.  The `value` of the `inputs` dictionary must be a `list` in this
case whose members must be the names of the layers which must have been defined earlier. The input/initializating 
arguments in the layer must be enclosed in a `config` dictionary within the layer in such cases.

```python
from dl4seq import Model
class MyModel(Model):

    def train_data(self, **kwargs) -> (list, list):
        """ write code which returns x and y where x consits of [(samples, 5, 10), (samples, 10)] and y consits of 
            list [(samples, 1)]
         """
        return 


layers = {"Input_0": {"shape": (5, 10), "name": "cont_inputs"},
          "lstm_0": {"config": { "units": 62,  "activation": "leakyrelu", "dropout": 0.4,  "recurrent_dropout": 0.4, "return_sequences": False,  "name": "lstm_0"},
                     "inputs": "cont_inputs"},

          "Input_1": {"shape": 10, "name": "disc_inputs"},
          "Dense_0": {"config": {"units": 64,"activation": "leakyrelu", "name": "Dense_0"},
                      "inputs": "disc_inputs"},
          "flatten_0": {"config": {"name": "flatten_0" },
                        "inputs": "Dense_0"},

          "Concat": {"config": {"name": "Concat" },
                     "inputs": ["lstm_0", "flatten_0"]},

          "Dense_1": {"units": 16, "activation": "leakyrelu", "name": "Dense_1"},
          "Dropout": 0.4,
          "Dense_2": 1
        }
```

As the above model takes two inputs, we will have to overwrite `run_paras` method in our own class which should inherit
from `Model` class

<img src="imgs/lstm_dense.png" width="700" height="800" />

### Multiple Output Layers
In some cases a layer returns more than one output and we want to use each of those outputs in a separate layer. Such
models can be built by specifying the outputs from a layer using `outputs` key. The `value` of the `outputs` key can a
string or a list of strings specifying the names of of outputs, the layer is returning. We can use these names as inputs
to any other layer later in the model. 

```python
layers = {
    "LSTM": {'config': {'units': 64, 'return_sequences': True, 'return_state': True},
             'outputs': ['junk', 'h_state', 'c_state']},

    "Dense_0": {'config': {'units': 1, 'name': 'MyDense'},
              'inputs': 'h_state'},

    "Conv1D_1": {'config': {'filters': 64, 'kernel_size': 3, 'name': 'myconv'},
                'inputs': 'junk'},
    "MaxPool1D": {'config': {'name': 'MyMaxPool'},
                'inputs': 'myconv'},
    "Flatten": {'config': {'name': 'MyFlatten'},
                'inputs': 'MyMaxPool'},

    "Concat": {'config': {'name': 'MyConcat'},
            'inputs': ['MyDense', 'MyFlatten']},

    "Dense": 1
}
```

<img src="imgs/multi_output_layer.png" width="600" height="700" />

### Additional call args
We might be tempted to provide additional call arguments to a layer. For example, in tensorflow's [LSTM layer](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/keras/layers/LSTM#call_arguments_2), we can
provide `initial state` of an LSTM. Suppose we want to use hidden and cell state of one LSTM as initial state for next
LSTM. In such cases we can make use of `call_args` as `key`. The value of `call_args` must a dictionary. In this way
we can provide `keyword` arguments while calling a layer.

```python
layers ={
    "Input": {'config': {'shape': (15, 8), 'name': "MyInputs"}},
    "LSTM": {'config': {'units': 64, 'return_sequences': True, 'return_state': True, 'name': 'MyLSTM1'},
             'inputs': 'MyInputs',
             'outputs': ['junk', 'h_state', 'c_state']},

    "Dense_0": {'config': {'units': 1, 'name': 'MyDense'},
              'inputs': 'h_state'},

    "Conv1D_1": {'config': {'filters': 64, 'kernel_size': 3, 'name': 'myconv'},
                'inputs': 'junk'},
    "MaxPool1D": {'config': {'name': 'MyMaxPool'},
                'inputs': 'myconv'},
    "Flatten": {'config': {'name': 'MyFlatten'},
                'inputs': 'MyMaxPool'},

    "LSTM_3": {"config": {'units': 64, 'name': 'MyLSTM2'},
               'inputs': 'MyInputs',
               'call_args': {'initial_state': ['h_state', 'c_state']}},

    "Concat": {'config': {'name': 'MyConcat'},
            'inputs': ['MyDense', 'MyFlatten', 'MyLSTM2']},

    "Dense": 1
}
```
<img src="imgs/add_call_args.png" width="700" height="800" />

It must be noted that the keys `inputs`, `outputs`, and `call_args` are optional while `config` is mandatory.

### lambda layers
You can also add [`lambda`](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/keras/layers/Lambda) layers by placing the 
lambda layer definition in the `config` as following:
```python
import tensorflow as tf
from dl4seq import Model
import pandas as pd

layers = {
    "LSTM_0": {"config": {"units": 32, "return_sequences": True}},
    "lambda": {"config": tf.keras.layers.Lambda(lambda x: x[:, -1, :])},
    "Dense": {"config": {"units": 1}}
}

# The model can be seelessly loaded from the saved json file using

config_path = "path like"
df = pd.read_csv('data/data.csv')
model = Model.from_config(config_path=config_path, data=df)
```
<img src="imgs/lambda.png" width="500" height="600" />

You may notice reshaping of the outputs into 3d. This is done for a consistent
output shape with time series prediction cases with multiple horizons. More on this
[here]()

For more examples see `examples`.

Commit message:

changed name from dl4seq to AI4Water

examples/build_dl_models.md, after:

## Build using python dictionary

We can construct a normal layered model using keras layers by placing the layers in a dictionary. The keys in the
dictionary must be a keras layer and optionally can have an identifier separated by an underscore `_` in order to 
differentiate it from other similar layers in the model. The input/initializating arguments in the layer must be
enclosed in a dictionary within the layer. To find out what input/initializing arguments can be used, check
documentation of corresponding layer in [`Tensorflow` docs](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/keras/layers). 

### multi-layer perceptron

```python
from AI4Water import Model

import pandas as pd

layers = {"Dense_0": {'units': 64, 'activation': 'relu'},
          "Dropout_0": 0.3,  # 0.3 here refers to 'rate' keyword argument in Dropout layer in Tensorflow API
          "Dense_1": {'units': 32, 'activation': 'relu'},
          "Dropout_1": 0.3,
          "Dense_2": {'units': 16, 'activation': 'relu'},
          "Dense_3": 1     # 1 refers to 'units' keyword argument in Dense layer in Tensorflow
          }

df = pd.read_csv('data/all_data_30min.csv')

model = Model(
            batch_size=16,
            lookback=1,
            lr=0.001,
            model={'layers':layers},
            epochs=2,
              data=df
              )
```

<img src="imgs/mlp.png" width="500" height="600" />

### LSTM based model
If you do not define the last dense/fully connected layer, it will be inferred from the number of outputs the 
model is set to produce. In following case a [`Dense`](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/keras/layers/Dense) layer with one `units` is added automatically at the end of 
second `LSTM` layer.
```python
from AI4Water import Model
import pandas as pd

layers = {"LSTM_0": {'units': 64, 'return_sequences': True},
          "LSTM_1": 32
          }

df = pd.read_csv("data/all_data_30min.csv")

model = Model(batch_size=16,
                lookback=1,
                lr=0.001,
                model={'layers':layers},
                epochs=2,
              data=df
              )
```
<img src="imgs/lstm.png" width="500" height="600" />

### 1d CNN based model
If a layer does not receive any input arguments for its initialization, still an empty dictioanry must be provided.  
Activation functions can also be used as a separate layer.

```python
layers = {"Conv1D_9": {'filters': 64, 'kernel_size': 2},
          "dropout": 0.3,
          "Conv1D_1": {'filters': 32, 'kernel_size': 2},
          "maxpool1d": 2,
          'flatten': {}, # This layer does not receive any input arguments
          'leakyrelu': {},  # activation function can also be used as a separate layer
          "Dense": 1
          }
```

<img src="imgs/cnn.png" width="500" height="600" />

### LSTM -> CNN based model

```python
layers = {"LSTM": {'units': 64, 'return_sequences': True},
          "Conv1D_0": {'filters': 64, 'kernel_size': 2},
          "dropout": 0.3,
          "Conv1D_1": {'filters': 32, 'kernel_size': 2},
          "maxpool1d": 2,
          'flatten': {},
          'leakyrelu': {},
          "Dense": 1
          }
```
<img src="imgs/lstm_cnn.png" width="500" height="600" />

### ConvLSTM based model
AI4Water will infer input shape for general cases however it is better to explicitly define the [input layer](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/keras/Input)
when the input is > 3d or the number of inputs are more than one.
```python
layers = {'Input': {'shape': (3, 1, 4, 8)},
          'convlstm2d': {'filters': 64, 'kernel_size': (1, 3), 'activation': 'relu'},
          'flatten': {},
          'repeatvector': 1,
          'lstm':   {'units': 128,   'activation': 'relu', 'dropout': 0.3, 'recurrent_dropout': 0.4 },
          'Dense': 1
          }
```
<img src="imgs/convlstm.png" width="500" height="600" />

### CNN -> LSTM
If a layer is to be enclosed in `TimeDistributed` layer, just add the layer followed by `TimeDistributed` as shown below.
In following, 3 `Conv1D` layers are enclosed in `TimeDistributed` layer. Similary `Flatten` and `MaxPool1D` are also 
wrapped in `TimeDistributed` layer.
```python
sub_sequences = 3
lookback = 15
time_steps = lookback // sub_sequences
layers = {
    "Input": {'config': {'shape': (None, time_steps, 10)}},
    "TimeDistributed_0": {},
    'conv1d_0': {'filters': 64, 'kernel_size': 2},
    'LeakyRelu_0': {},
    "TimeDistributed_1":{},
    'conv1d_1': {'filters': 32, 'kernel_size': 2},
    'elu_1': {},
    "TimeDistributed_2": {},
    'conv1d_2': {'filters': 16, 'kernel_size': 2},
    'tanh_2': {},
    "TimeDistributed_3": {},
    "maxpool1d": {'pool_size': 2},
    "TimeDistributed_4": {},
    'flatten': {},
    'lstm_0':   {'units': 64, 'activation': 'relu', 'dropout': 0.4, 'recurrent_dropout': 0.5, 'return_sequences': True,
               'name': 'lstm_0'},
    'Relu_1': {},
    'lstm_1':   {'units': 32, 'activation': 'relu', 'dropout': 0.4, 'recurrent_dropout': 0.5, 'name': 'lstm_1'},
    'sigmoid_2': {},
    'Dense': 1
}
```
<img src="imgs/cnn_lstm.png" width="800" height="900" />

### LSTM based auto-encoder
```python
layers = {
    'lstm_0': {'units': 100,  'dropout': 0.3, 'recurrent_dropout': 0.4},
    "leakyrelu_0": {},
    'RepeatVector': 11,
    'lstm_1': {'units': 100,  'dropout': 0.3, 'recurrent_dropout': 0.4},
    "relu_1": {},
    'Dense': 1
}
```
<img src="imgs/lstm_autoenc.png" width="500" height="700" />

### TCN layer
You can use third party layers such as [`tcn`](https://github.com/philipperemy/keras-tcn) which is currently not supported by Tensorflow. Provided you have 
installed `tcn`, the layer along with its arguments can be used as following

```python
layers = {"tcn": {'nb_filters': 64,
                  'kernel_size': 2,
                  'nb_stacks': 1,
                  'dilations': [1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32],
                  'padding': 'causal',
                  'use_skip_connections': True,
                  'return_sequences': False,
                  'dropout_rate': 0.0},
          'Dense': 1
          }
```

<img src="imgs/tcn.png" width="500" height="700" />

### Multiple Inputs
In order to build more complex models, where a layer takes more than one inputs, you can specify the `inputs` key
for the layer and specify which inputs the layer uses.  The `value` of the `inputs` dictionary must be a `list` in this
case whose members must be the names of the layers which must have been defined earlier. The input/initializating 
arguments in the layer must be enclosed in a `config` dictionary within the layer in such cases.

```python
from AI4Water import Model
class MyModel(Model):

    def train_data(self, **kwargs) -> (list, list):
        """ write code which returns x and y where x consits of [(samples, 5, 10), (samples, 10)] and y consits of 
            list [(samples, 1)]
         """
        return 


layers = {"Input_0": {"shape": (5, 10), "name": "cont_inputs"},
          "lstm_0": {"config": { "units": 62,  "activation": "leakyrelu", "dropout": 0.4,  "recurrent_dropout": 0.4, "return_sequences": False,  "name": "lstm_0"},
                     "inputs": "cont_inputs"},

          "Input_1": {"shape": 10, "name": "disc_inputs"},
          "Dense_0": {"config": {"units": 64,"activation": "leakyrelu", "name": "Dense_0"},
                      "inputs": "disc_inputs"},
          "flatten_0": {"config": {"name": "flatten_0" },
                        "inputs": "Dense_0"},

          "Concat": {"config": {"name": "Concat" },
                     "inputs": ["lstm_0", "flatten_0"]},

          "Dense_1": {"units": 16, "activation": "leakyrelu", "name": "Dense_1"},
          "Dropout": 0.4,
          "Dense_2": 1
        }
```

As the above model takes two inputs, we will have to overwrite `run_paras` method in our own class which should inherit
from `Model` class

<img src="imgs/lstm_dense.png" width="700" height="800" />

### Multiple Output Layers
In some cases a layer returns more than one output and we want to use each of those outputs in a separate layer. Such
models can be built by specifying the outputs from a layer using `outputs` key. The `value` of the `outputs` key can a
string or a list of strings specifying the names of of outputs, the layer is returning. We can use these names as inputs
to any other layer later in the model. 

```python
layers = {
    "LSTM": {'config': {'units': 64, 'return_sequences': True, 'return_state': True},
             'outputs': ['junk', 'h_state', 'c_state']},

    "Dense_0": {'config': {'units': 1, 'name': 'MyDense'},
              'inputs': 'h_state'},

    "Conv1D_1": {'config': {'filters': 64, 'kernel_size': 3, 'name': 'myconv'},
                'inputs': 'junk'},
    "MaxPool1D": {'config': {'name': 'MyMaxPool'},
                'inputs': 'myconv'},
    "Flatten": {'config': {'name': 'MyFlatten'},
                'inputs': 'MyMaxPool'},

    "Concat": {'config': {'name': 'MyConcat'},
            'inputs': ['MyDense', 'MyFlatten']},

    "Dense": 1
}
```

<img src="imgs/multi_output_layer.png" width="600" height="700" />

### Additional call args
We might be tempted to provide additional call arguments to a layer. For example, in tensorflow's [LSTM layer](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/keras/layers/LSTM#call_arguments_2), we can
provide `initial state` of an LSTM. Suppose we want to use hidden and cell state of one LSTM as initial state for next
LSTM. In such cases we can make use of `call_args` as `key`. The value of `call_args` must a dictionary. In this way
we can provide `keyword` arguments while calling a layer.

```python
layers ={
    "Input": {'config': {'shape': (15, 8), 'name': "MyInputs"}},
    "LSTM": {'config': {'units': 64, 'return_sequences': True, 'return_state': True, 'name': 'MyLSTM1'},
             'inputs': 'MyInputs',
             'outputs': ['junk', 'h_state', 'c_state']},

    "Dense_0": {'config': {'units': 1, 'name': 'MyDense'},
              'inputs': 'h_state'},

    "Conv1D_1": {'config': {'filters': 64, 'kernel_size': 3, 'name': 'myconv'},
                'inputs': 'junk'},
    "MaxPool1D": {'config': {'name': 'MyMaxPool'},
                'inputs': 'myconv'},
    "Flatten": {'config': {'name': 'MyFlatten'},
                'inputs': 'MyMaxPool'},

    "LSTM_3": {"config": {'units': 64, 'name': 'MyLSTM2'},
               'inputs': 'MyInputs',
               'call_args': {'initial_state': ['h_state', 'c_state']}},

    "Concat": {'config': {'name': 'MyConcat'},
            'inputs': ['MyDense', 'MyFlatten', 'MyLSTM2']},

    "Dense": 1
}
```
<img src="imgs/add_call_args.png" width="700" height="800" />

It must be noted that the keys `inputs`, `outputs`, and `call_args` are optional while `config` is mandatory.

### lambda layers
You can also add [`lambda`](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/keras/layers/Lambda) layers by placing the 
lambda layer definition in the `config` as following:
```python
import tensorflow as tf
from AI4Water import Model
import pandas as pd

layers = {
    "LSTM_0": {"config": {"units": 32, "return_sequences": True}},
    "lambda": {"config": tf.keras.layers.Lambda(lambda x: x[:, -1, :])},
    "Dense": {"config": {"units": 1}}
}

# The model can be seelessly loaded from the saved json file using

config_path = "path like"
df = pd.read_csv('data/data.csv')
model = Model.from_config(config_path=config_path, data=df)
```
<img src="imgs/lambda.png" width="500" height="600" />

You may notice reshaping of the outputs into 3d. This is done for a consistent
output shape with time series prediction cases with multiple horizons. More on this
[here]()

For more examples see `examples`.
